Hello.
My name is Rich Murphy,
and I'm the manager of the
platform security group.
This is session 311,
Web Enabling Your Application.
During this session we're going
to be talking about URL access,
giving an overview of the
functionality in the library,
discussing the APIs,
talking about URL access on Mac OS X,
and also talking about the
NSURL APIs and Cocoa Web Programming.
During this session,
you're going to learn what
you can do with URL access,
basically how it applies
to your problems,
how you can incorporate URL access
into your Carbon applications,
the limitations of URL access,
and future plans for the APIs.
What is URL access?
URL access is an API that allows
you to easily access data on
the Internet by the use of URLs.
supports http, https, ftp,
and file type URLs, has downloading and
uploading capabilities,
and it's a Carbon API that's available
on both Mac OS 9 and Mac OS X.
This slide indicates how we see
URL access actually being used.
For the most part,
if you're building a Carbon application,
you need to use URL access.
URL access is available on both
platforms and will provide all the
basic URL functionality or URL download
and upload functionality that you need.
It's based on the Mac OS itself,
which provides all the networking
functionality underneath,
actual socket access or file
access and that sort of thing.
On the Cocoa side, we have the CF APIs.
Core Foundation, or CF,
provides an additional
URL accessing type APIs.
And they're also based on
the Mac OS X kernel and the
networking functionality.
capabilities of that.
Here's some standard URL access features.
We have an authentication dialog
that pops up whenever you need
to actually authenticate or
log in to a remote server,
whether you're doing ftp type
access or whether you're going to
an authenticated http or https site.
There's a progress dialog built
into the library that will come up
and show you how much time is left.
It includes file decoding capability.
It links into doing dbin hexing and
also working with Apple single decoding.
Additionally, in Mac OS 9,
it currently will,
expand .sit files using the
Aladdin stuff and expander capabilities.
It's scriptable using Apple Script,
has proxy and firewall support,
And it also supports the keychain for
storing your authentication information.
For http, we have download capability.
We have the capability
of doing post and put,
although it requires you to do a little
bit of additional work with the APIs.
It auto redirects.
You have full access to the server
response by taking a look at properties.
It will also do proxy authentication.
For ftp, URL access will also provide
upload of files and directories,
or download of files and directories,
and it gives you the
capability of getting directory
listings from the ftp server.
For https,
we also include SSL version 3.0
capability with 128-bit encryption.
There are some functional gotchas
when you're using URL access.
Basically, it doesn't bother to parse
the response of HTML.
This can be a problem when
you're doing redirection,
if you have a file not
found on the remote side,
or when you have login failures
and that sort of thing.
There are proxy limitations
for ftp uploading,
when you're trying to send
a file up to an ftp server,
or when you're doing ftp
directory downloading.
There's a couple third party applications
that are actually using URL access,
both in 9 and 10.
iCab is currently using it in
order to download https sites,
and Adobe uses it in Acrobat to
implement the web capture facility.
There's also a fair number of
companies that are using the scripting
capabilities to help manipulate files,
get them up to servers,
and back down from servers as well.
So the next thing we're going
to do is go over the APIs.
There are synchronous APIs.
They include a system event
procedure that allows you to trap
system events and react to those.
There's various flags that
you can specify to URL access,
which will help modify its functionality.
There's properties that can be set and
that sort of thing and interrogated
in order to perform various operations
like http puts and posts or to get
back information from an http server.
There's the asynchronous API,
which allows you to start
URL access off doing a transfer.
And in those cases,
you want to be checking for events.
Then there's various states that
URL access goes through that you can
interrogate to see how it's working.
The first of the synchronous
APIs is URL simple download.
This is really the easiest
way to download a URL.
If you're writing an application
that basically just needs to
grab something off of a server,
this is really the function to use.
All you have to do is
provide a source URL,
a destination file spec or handle,
and then flags indicating how you
want URL access to actually behave.
If you're using this in an application
that needs to be interactive,
you need to use this in a thread
because it is a synchronous API.
It will block until the
transfer actually occurs.
Here's an example of
using URL simple download.
Notice here we've created a
little function called getURL,
which takes a source URL as an
argument and a file spec in order
to download the actual file to
a file on the Mac OS file system.
We set some URL open flags for
passing into the actual function call,
telling it to replace an
existing file if it's there,
display the progress as
you're doing the download,
and expand the file as it comes down.
We call urlsimpledownload,
passing in the URL,
passing in the destination file spec,
passing in nil to the memory argument,
because we're not going
to download it to memory,
passing in the flags,
and in this particular case,
we aren't providing an event proc,
and so therefore we also don't
need to provide a context.
It makes the call,
and then it simply returns,
along with its status.
It will have downloaded all the data
into the file and that sort of thing,
or return an error status.
System event procedure can be used as
a parameter to the synchronous calls.
This will allow any of the dialogues that
are displayed to become movable modal.
Any update events will be passed through
to the procedure that you've passed in.
If you don't have one of these,
the dialogs will become
non-movable modal.
The flags for URL access control
optional aspects of the transfer.
As we saw a little bit earlier,
it had the replace existing
flag or the display progress
flag and that sort of thing.
These flags can be used in both the
synchronous and the asynchronous calls.
and various calls will
accept different flags.
Check the documentation online for that.
Here are some sample flags that we have.
The Replace Existing flag,
as I said earlier,
will replace a file on the download
or the upload if it's already there.
Displaying Progress.
will happen if you pass in the
KURL display progress flag that
will put up a little dialogue.
DisplayAuth will actually invoke
the URL access authentication window
to get your login and password.
Expand File will invoke Aladdin Expander,
Stuff Expander.
Bin Hex on the way up will
actually bin hex the file.
and then there's the
no auto redirect flag.
In other words,
come back with an error if
you're being told to redirect.
There's also, on the synchronous side,
there's a little bit more
complex call if you want to,
called URL download.
If you call URL access
through URL download,
it takes a few more steps in
order to actually invoke the call,
but it allows you a lot more creativity
or a lot more flexibility in what you
can actually get out of the calls.
You have to create a URL reference
using URL new reference
and URL dispose reference.
Once again,
this should be used in a thread
since it's a synchronous call,
but once you have that reference,
you can set various properties and
do additional manipulation of how
URL access will actually be used.
So as I said before,
if you use URL download,
you can get and set properties
before and after the download.
You can set things like the user password
if you want to or things like that.
And you can also, after the call is made,
interrogate the URL reference in order
to find out what the status was coming
back from the server a little bit
better or in a little bit more detail.
If you've actually threaded it,
you can monitor the
state of the download,
or you can abort the download as it's
progressing if it's taking too long.
Here's an example of using URL download.
In this particular case,
we've made another function, getURL,
same as before,
taking a URL and passing in
the file spec destination.
You'll notice the call
to URL new reference,
which actually allocates a URL ref,
which can later then be
used in URL download.
You'll notice the call structure
doesn't take a URL as the first thing.
It takes a URL ref.
and has the arguments shown here.
After the call to URL download,
we do a URL dispose reference.
On the synchronous upload side,
we have URL simple upload
and then also URL upload.
And they pair up the same way
the URL download calls pair up.
URL simple upload is easy to use.
URL simple upload is very easy to use.
URL upload is a little
bit more difficult,
gives you a little bit more flexibility.
In this particular case,
you give the destination
URL of where you want to go,
and a source file spec is provided.
One of the limitations of this
is you can't upload from memory.
Different flags apply to the upload side.
And right now it's ftp only.
For properties,
you can get the URL host or
the URL actually passed in.
or you can get the
resources it points to,
meaning on the way back you can
check to see what the size was of
the resource that was downloaded or
the resource name on the way down,
which might have been specified by use
of the URL itself or you could have
specified it through the file spec.
Also the MIME type that
it ended up mapping to.
In the download,
you can get the status string,
checking to see how things went,
or you can get the total number of items.
For instance,
if you've downloaded your directory,
this would tell you how
many files actually got
brought down in the download.
For http specific properties,
you can get the request method,
the response header body,
or a redirected URL.
Properties are received
using URL get property.
You specify the property that you're
asking for and give it a variable that
you expect to have it come back in.
In order to set properties,
you call URL set property.
Any of these properties may change
as a result of the transfer itself.
It may be that the username and
password might change as a result of
actually redoing the authentication
from the auth dialog coming up,
that sort of thing.
Or it may be that other properties
are set as a result of the
transfer from the http server
returning certain information.
These are all the properties that
you can set before making the call.
Once you have the URL reference,
you can set any one of these
properties in the URL ref.
Here's an example of using the properties
in order to do an http post operation.
Notice before we said that
you could do a put or a post,
but it requires a little bit more work.
In this particular case,
we're going to end up doing a
URL download in order to actually
post data up to the server.
We make the new reference,
we fill out the request method
property with a post request,
We also set the property of the http
request body with the actual data
we want to send up to the server.
Then we just call urldownload,
which should have the full
complement of arguments.
Sorry about that.
After the call we dispose the reference.
The asynchronous
APIs need a URL reference.
In order to do an asynchronous call,
you need to create a URL reference.
The one call that you can
make for this is URL open.
URL open will either do
an upload or a download,
depending on what you've requested.
You retrieve the data with URL get
buffer and URL release buffer.
You monitor the state of the
transaction using URL get current state.
Various reasons why you might
want to use the asynchronous APIs.
If you're basically just
filtering something,
you want to send it on through.
That's a good reason.
If you want to display your
own progress rather than having
URL access provide the progress,
or if you don't want to include
multiple threads in your application.
Here's an example of an asynchronous
download using URL Open.
So in this particular case,
we created a URL reference.
We also set up a notify proc.
with the notifyupp equals
new URL notifyupp with
the function mynotifier,
which we'll just show
you in the next slide.
The URL open call includes the URL ref,
the flags, the notify proc pointer,
and then the events mask that we
want to take a look at and also
a pointer to the user context.
In this particular case,
we're just setting up a little done flag.
We have all of that in a do
while loop here and checking
to see if we're done or not.
and in order to give URL access
a little bit of time to work,
it calls URL idle.
Here's the notification routine
that we'd actually registered,
my notifier.
You notice that it's switching
based on the events coming in
for a data available event,
in which case we just process the data,
or in the particular cases of a completed
event or an error occurred event,
we simply set done to true and
we break out of the routine.
Here's the process data call that
gets called from the notify proc.
Gets the current state,
gets the current buffer,
does something with the buffer,
and then releases it.
Events are always reported
to the notification routine.
You can register for a subset or you can
actually handle all events coming in.
If you need all the events,
use K URL All Buffer Events Mask.
Otherwise,
you actually OR together the appropriate
flags that you want to look at.
In this particular case,
the completed event mask and the
URL error occurred event mask.
Here's a sample of all the events
that you can possibly be waiting for.
Resource found, property changed,
and so on.
Here's a case of an asynchronous download
where we're actually going to poll.
So we set up to do the download.
Call URL Open,
and then we go into a Do While loop.
Basically what we do is we just check the
state by calling URL Get Current State,
saving that into Current State,
and then check it against the various
states that would be completed,
the URL Completed State and
the Error Occurred event.
The URL get current state function
itself reports the state of the transfer.
Most states have some sort
of an event counterpart.
You can't find out about property
change events by using states.
So you can't tell about, for instance,
the http properties changing
or something like that.
There is no way to actually
signify that in a state.
Checking states is useful in both the
asynchronous and the synchronous APIs,
so that if you've used one
of the synchronous calls and
gone off into another thread,
you can get the current
state of a transfer.
Here are some sample
states that are available.
The connecting state, download state,
data available state, error occurred,
and completed state.
So in review, there is a synchronous
API using URL simple download,
URL download, URL simple upload,
and URL upload.
And then the asynchronous
API where you'd use URL open.
various flags and properties and events
as we've seen help you manipulate
how the transfer actually works.
Some more programming gotchas.
URL access currently is highly threaded.
You have to call URL idle in order
to give URL access a chance to work.
The set property function
sometimes expects C strings
and sometimes Pascal strings.
One of the things we're working
on in URL Access is updating
some of the documentation.
As we've started to use it,
we've had a transition period
over the last couple of months.
We have some new people working on it.
We're finding that we need to actually
get a little bit more documentation.
So expect that to be updated really soon,
I hope, as far as what properties are
expected as C or Pascal strings.
You also can't call URL Dispose
Reference from a notification routine.
If you're using Mac OS less than 9.04,
the request body can't
contain null bytes.
The URL reference itself isn't reusable.
And if you're using URL open,
the authentication dialog
isn't currently supported.
For Mac OS 9 versus Mac OS X,
there was some capability of having
plug-ins for URL access in Mac OS 9.
We no longer support that for Mac OS X.
We've fixed some of the ways some of
the properties work in Mac OS X so
they work a little bit more correctly.
And currently the file protocol
is not available on Mac OS X.
If you want to develop
applications on Mac OS 9,
here's the URLs.
If you want to work with
CarbonLib 1.02 or later,
there's a URL for that.
I think these are all available at the
end on one master URL at the very end,
so you'll be able to get all those.
If you want to develop on Mac OS X,
install Mac OS X.
And currently,
link it with the system library
framework's Carbon framework.
We're all part of Carbon.
And the latest documentation
is at the URL provided here.
For future plans for Mac OS X,
we're working currently on a new
URL access that will be a little bit
more targeted directly towards Mac OS X.
We've had some problems where some things
aren't working quite properly using
some of the old ways of working with 9.
And this is giving us some performance
problems and some stability problems.
So that's really been kind of an area of
focus over the last month or two months,
actually.
There will be a lot less
threads in the library.
It'll hopefully be a lot more stable,
it appears to be so far.
And it'll include streaming
upload and download capability.
will actually be supporting
connection reuse in 10,
so that if you have multiple
instances of going to an HTTP server,
they'll actually be able to
pick up the same connection.
Secure Transport will start to use the
security framework root certificates.
This has been a problem for
people with their own self-signed
certs and that sort of stuff,
trying to access secure servers.
We've had problems where people
need to update for new root certs
that are out in the environment.
So in summary, URL access allows you to
access internet data by URLs.
It is a Carbon API.
It has fairly easy to use
synchronous APIs and pretty
flexible asynchronous APIs.
So, now next, in order to talk about
web access from Cocoa,
Becky Willrich will be out here
to talk about the core frameworks.
Thank you.
Thanks very much, Richard.
So I want to talk a little bit
about how you can do the same kinds
of things as URL access provides
to Carbon from the Cocoa world.
And I'm going to start
by talking about CFURL.
CFURL is just a simple CF type
from Core Foundation that's
used to represent URLs.
I need to correct one
thing that Richard said.
Core Foundation is not
part of the Cocoa APIs.
It's part of the Carbon APIs,
and it's at a low level in the system
where it can be leveraged from both.
So CFURL is not a Cocoa-specific type.
Now for those of you that
are working in Cocoa,
you'll find that CFURL is
bridged to NSURL.
So a CFURL is an NSURL,
and an NSURL is a CFURL.
What CFURL does for you is it parses
the URL string and gives you access
to all the different component pieces.
It also handles your
internationalization issues,
things like the percent encodings.
Right, things like the percent
encodings in particular.
And when you're working
with the CFURL APIs,
you should be aware that unless
the encoding is explicitly
specified in an argument,
we're assuming UTF-8.
However, CFURL is a pure data class.
In other words,
it does nothing but represent the string.
There's no support in there
for doing the actual network
I/O necessary to get the data.
So just one more note on using CFURL.
You'll find that a lot of
the core foundation APIs,
and increasingly the Carbon APIs as well,
are taking CFURLs to represent files.
This is trickier than it sounds
because in part of the encoding issues
involved with high-bit characters.
So whenever you create a file URL,
we recommend that you use the functions
that are named with the word file,
and I've given some of those up there.
And then for further compatibility
with the Carbon world,
there are conversion routines
which will take a CFURL and
convert it to the matching FSRef.
One catch there, of course,
a CFURL can represent
files that don't exist.
FSRefs can't,
so in that case the conversion
will fail and will return an error.
Okay, so from that I'm going to
go on to talk about Cocoa.
These are the topics
we're going to cover.
We're going to start out by showing
how you can use URL access as
Richard described it from Cocoa.
Then we're going to look at
the specifics of using NSURL.
From there we're going
to look at NSURL Handle,
which is the class that actually does
the download work inside of Cocoa.
And then finally we're going to talk
about how you can extend NSURL Handle
to do your own downloads to support
different schemes and so on.
So the first thing is you can in
fact use URL access from Cocoa,
more or less as you would
from a Carbon application.
There are two things that you have
to be very much aware of though.
The first one is that you cannot use
any of the UI switches in URL access.
That's because URL access
brings up Carbon panels,
and Carbon panels and Cocoa panels
don't coexist very well.
The second thing you have to
be aware of is that URL access
uses thread manager threads.
So when Richard talked about
URL access being highly threaded,
those were all created via
the thread manager APIs.
Well, the thread manager uses
cooperative threads,
whereas people programming
Cocoa are more used to pthreads,
which are not cooperative.
When you use URL access,
you have to be prepared to work
in the cooperative threading
world of the thread manager.
So what does that mean?
The first thing it means is
that you must call URL access
from a thread manager thread.
URL access is not prepared to be
called from a preemptive thread.
The good news is the main thread counts.
The bad news is if you call it
from another cooperative thread,
the main thread has to be playing nice.
That means the main thread
must be prepared to yield to
the other cooperative threads.
The other thing that means is if
you are using the asynchronous APIs,
URL open,
you must remember to call URL idle for
the same reasons that Richard described.
If you don't call URL idle,
you won't be giving time to
the other cooperative threads.
The easiest way to do this from
Cocoa is on the main thread,
post a notification to yourself with
the posting style post when idle.
When you receive the notification,
you know that there are
no events in the queue.
So take the opportunity to call URL idle
and give up time to the other threads.
Okay, so now we're going to do the
same thing that Richard did
with the URL Access APIs.
We're going to talk about the
synchronous ways you use NSURL and
then the asynchronous ones.
Synchronous one is very simple.
You just send the URL the message
"Resource data using cache." Pass a
flag yes or no depending on whether
you want NSURL itself to hold
that data for future reference.
The asynchronous APIs are
a little more complex.
You send the message, load resource data,
notifying client,
and then you pass whatever object
you wish to use as the client,
using cache, yes or no.
What that does is it starts an
asynchronous download in the background,
and as events come in on that download,
your client is notified with
the methods listed below.
Those methods are provided
in an informal protocol,
so you implement only the ones you're
interested in and the others get ignored.
You can see the events there.
You get told when resource data comes in,
when the download finishes,
if the download was cancelled,
and if the download fails.
[Transcript missing]
So, one of the side effects, well,
one of the reasons for this
is so that NSURL handle itself
can provide a more complex API,
and when you need to do
more sophisticated URL work,
you work directly with the NSURL handle.
You can obtain a handle by passing
the message URL handle using cache,
yes or no.
Once you've got the handle,
you can manipulate it
for more direct control.
You can also use it to flush the cache,
so if you find,
once you've used the data as
much times as you need to,
you can then flush the
cache in empty memory.
And for the full details,
I'm going to point you
towards NSURL handle.h.
So here's the good, the bad,
and the ugly.
NSURL currently, well,
NSURL handle currently
supports only http and file.
Unlike URL access,
you're not going to find proxy
or firewall support there,
nor are you going to find https.
However, the good news is we
intend to do all of those,
and the architecture itself is designed
to be extensible so that you can easily
add new subclasses to NSURL handle
and thereby provide new functionality.
So how do I do that?
Well, what you do is you simply
subclass NSURL handle.
Once you have written the subclass,
you register that subclass with NSURL,
and once it's registered,
NSURL will automatically pick it up,
and as it's messaged for its data,
it will start using your subclass.
So, start by creating a subclass,
implement all the methods
inside of nsurl_handle.h that
are marked to be overridden,
and then call nsurl_handle
register_url_handle class
to register your subclass.
Here's a list of the methods to override.
I'm not going to go through
them in great detail right now,
but it gives you an idea of
the scope of the problem.
There may be ten methods up there.
From your subclass,
you should message the superclass
occasionally to inform it,
basically, of the state of the download.
The two methods you need
to use are the ones here.
Background load did fail with reason,
so when your engine detects a failure,
you need to message your superclass
to pass that information on.
And did_load_bytes_load_completed,
which you use to tell the superclass
that new bytes have arrived and whether
or not the download is now finished.
That's all I have for you
today about NSURL and Cocoa.
I'm going to ask Richard back
up here on the stage.
and Thomas as well.
Tom Weier is our DTS contact, excuse me,
Worldwide Developer Relations contact.
So if you have questions about
either URL access or the Cocoa side,
the NSURL and NSURL handle,
he's the guy to contact.